---
imageSrc: "/assets/inside-title-cover.jpg"
thumbnailSrc: "/assets/inside-thumbnail.jpg"
altText: "Screencap from All Eyes on Me. Intense Burnham stare."
title: "Inside"
summary: "Most moving thing on Netflix. Maybe ever."
author: "Bo Burnham"
---
There are bits of context to why I think this counts as literature. It moves people, it makes people feel. Bo Burnham may be a comedian on paper, but he is an artist at heart. He doesn't just tell jokes that makes you think, that's more George Carlin's style. No, he tells his jokes through songs that make you think, forces you to be introspective.

But the only true context is to see it for yourself. [Here's him performing one of his songs for MAKE HAPPY about his relationship with his audience.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rYy0o-J0x20&ab_channel=boburnham) This is only a slice of what he does. If this is the impact of a single song, what more an entire hour of greatness?

I've followed Bo Burnham for some time now. Not as early to have first watched him grow on YouTube, but early enough to remember humming to myself the tune of "Kill Yourself". Fun stuff. But when he started having panic attacks on stage, he took a break (and a well-deserved one at that.) So did I, for a while. 

Fast forward a couple of years, the pandemic hit and reared its ugly head around the corner. To stave off the boredom that comes coupled with isolation, I went looking for something to watch when I thought, "I want to rewatch a Bo Burnham special." And so, I typed into to Netflix's search bar "Bo". And there they were. Make Happy, what., and... Inside? What's Inside?

Of course, the first instinct is to watch it. While it loaded, I ended up searching the internet about it. Inside came out a few days after I found it. Shooketh was I, both by how I accidentally found Inside without prompt, and also because Bo just released a new special! With great glee, I watched it. Twice.

Never have I done that in my entire life. Movies and books are usually a one-and-done thing for me. I usually have to wait months, sometimes even years to rewatch/reread something. But not Inside. Inside was just so profound and amazing and funny and thought-provoking and... Inside might possibly be Bo's magnum opus. But I wouldn't be surprised if he releases another special better than this. Not that he is obligated to.

I keep saying that Inside is great, but **why**?

Well first of all, it's relatable. Inside is about the pandemic. But not just the pandemic. Actually, the pandemic was never mentioned by name. Only ever alluded to. No, it was about **isolation**. Being alone, being apart from people. Yeah sure, I was with my family, but not with my friends. I've always been quiet and not the kind to strike up a conversation. I was fine for a while, maybe longer than others, but I too started to feel lonely. Thank God for Discord and public servers. But it's not just about being in solitude.

Inside is a lot of other things. It's about his personal struggles, about how companies conduct themselves online, about how we conduct ourselves online, about 🎵Jeffery Bezos🎵. It's contemporary commentary on almost everything we became more aware since the plague, seeing as we *have* to plug ourselves onto the world wide web to interact with people.

Aesthetically, Inside is very Bo Burnham-esque. It's his unique style. He plays with lighting in a way I have yet to see someone else do. [Here's a video showcasing just that.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3rLbMVlOH_k&ab_channel=NowYouSeeIt) Each scene looked unique and different from the previous one. Even if the floor is cluttered  with gizmos and wires--which really, just adds to the vibe of the entire thing--the lighting really takes all of those things out of mind. A very notable one that stuck with me is from the song "Problematic". He does this Jesus-cross thing, but the cross is not out of wood, but rather projected onto the wall behind him.

This project is shaping up in a weird way. I can't seem to express well enough on how much I adore these pieces I'm picking for this miniblog thing. I think the best thing I can do is to simply link to them and get you to experience it for yourself instead. [Watch Inside here. (Only watchable if you ain't broke.)](https://www.netflix.com/ph/title/81289483)