---
imageSrc: "/assets/ilyada-title-cover.png"
thumbnailSrc: "/assets/ilyada-thumbnail.png"
altText: "Some random picture depicting the Iliad of something."
title: "Ilyada - Bulok Bersyon"
summary: "My own summer bastard."
author: "Ross David Tan"
---

This one is a bit more of a joke, a flex, and an excuse to talk about a personally issue of mine. First, Ilyada backstory.

Over the second summer of quarantite, I endeavored to translate the Iliad, 'cause why not? I sucked at speaking and writing in Filipino, so of course the logical practice is to translate the Bestest Bard's (Homer) the Iliad into Filipino. This should be a genuine red flag to those who like learning because I should be reading Filipino instead of writing Filipino. You can see how bad my literacy is if you go and read it. 

It's not funny, polished, well-written, or finished. But it was a fun project to work on while it lasted. Python scripts would translate LaTex files into html using RegEx, which is, for those who haven't been afflicted with an immense headache, an insane way to handle this kind of thing. but it was *fun* and I learnt a lot. Honestly, no regrets wasting my summer making this thing.

Now, the other reason why I placed this one is because I wanted to add here a piece written in Filipino. But I wracked my head, and nothing came out. I haven't read or watched or listened to Filipino stuff that could be worthy of being placed here. It sucks. Totally detached am I, from Contemporary Culture that it embarasses me. 

Yes, the short stories we read in class were all great. Benjie X Mike ♥, Trolls but not the stupid singing ones, Superman and her husband. All of these works were amazing reads. But it felt weird to have placed them here, seeing as everything else on here holds a sentimental value close to my heart.

Maybe if I'd found any of these on my own, then they'd be going on here, taking the spot of my joke of a *salin*. But no, I just don't consume enough Filipino media to have done so. I pity myself for being oh-so out of touch with my own culture.

So I'll be taking your recommendations, reader. Here's a google form I embeded on this website.

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdXKnq5IS1xr59T4P4YxY9YbcdjCUW1q09mh3cf99MgDDyGbg/viewform?embedded=true" width="640" height="1195" frameborder="0" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0">Loading…</iframe>

If you somehow wish to read my translation, then [folow this link](https://klassmagicker17.github.io/Iliada/). Be warned though, this include terrible Filipino (skill issue) and a lot of swearing to compensate my lack of comedic timing (other skill issue). It's also not finish, abruptly stopping at book 11 (other, other skill issue.)