---
imageSrc: "/assets/dndads-title-cover.jpg"
thumbnailSrc: "/assets/dndads-thumbnail.jpg"
altText: "Dungeons and Daddies crew groupfie. From left to right: Matt Arnold, Freddie Wong, Beth May, Anthony Burch, Will Campos"
title: "Dungeons And Daddies"
summary: "Not a BDSM Podcast."
author: "Anthony Burch"
---

Ok, ok. I need to make one thing clear before anything bad happens to me. Anthony Burch is not technically the author, in the normal sense. Because of the nature of a D&D real play podcast, nothing is ever truly planned. Anthony is the Dungeon Master, the one who controls everything in the world while everyone else--the players--interact with the world. I'm not going to explain fully how TTRPGs work, but that's the basic idea of it. So in a sense, all of them write the story--or in their case, play out the story.

But what makes Dungeon and Daddies so special?

For starters, the premise of the podcast is about four dads from our world flung into a land of high fantasy and magic in a quest to rescue their lost sons. Already, a very fun premise. A fun premise that doesn't hinge on you already liking D&D to be able to enjoy the podcast.

You watch--err listen--to these four dads (Matt Arnold as Darryl Wilson, Freddie Wong as Glenn Close, Beth May as Ron Stampler, and Will Campos as Henry Oak) bumble around in the Forgotten Realms as they look for their sons. All of their sons have been separated from each other, because story and plot, so in every mini-arc, we get to witness a different father-son dynamic. 

Darryl is the Christian Dad who doesn't fully understand his son, Glenn is the too-cool-to-be-a-dad dad so he ends up being friends with his son (which isn't wholly bad, but if you aren't raising your son, then there is a problem), Henry is too permissive and has to deal with hyperactive twins, and Ron is a step-dad. A lot of angst and relationships to explore just with the premise.

But before I go a bit more in depth with that, there's another reason why people love Dungeons and Daddies so much.

It's the funniest thing ever. Just from their opening banter I already lose my shi-

```
Friendly reminder that this is a school project for a Christian school. No swearing.
```

-ingles. Shingles. The entire cast is just so naturally funny that I lose my Shingles. They play off each other so well that's it's almost physic. Providing a concrete example would be an appalling display of uncouthness, so I won't. Comedy requires context, build-up, and punchline. Simply telling you about a moment would be me robbing you of the actual joke. 

> Explaining a joke is like dissecting a frog. You understand it better, but the frog dies in the process.
>> E. B. White, when asked what he meant by "dunking on the haters."

Now that I have dodges trying to justify why this podcast is funny, I now need to justify why it's literature. Literature should be moving. It should spark ideas, tell stories, invoke emotions and not simply be funny (maybe). And as God as my witness, Dungeons and Daddies is just that.

Sure, it's funny. But when it's not funny, it's emotionally captivating.

```
Spoilers Ahead!
```

Darryl learning to understand his son, Grant. Darryl, like the good Christian man that he is, isn't very emotionally open to Grant. This creates the rift between them. On the episode where Darryl finally opens up, you'll find yourself an emotional wreck.

At that point in the story, Grant had asked his crush, Yeet, for a kiss but was friend zoned. So, Darryl tries to suggests solutions to remedy the problem. That's what a father is supposed to do right? Guide and fix things? But he learns right there and then that no, that's not that Grant *needs* right now. He doesn't need fix anything. He simply needs to be present.

```
Unspoilers!
```

It warms by heart, so much. I'm listening to that episode in the background while I type this out. I feel like sobbing. And every dad goes through something like this with their kid. And there is more to it than that. There are side characters to simp for. There are antagonists you'll want to rip apart. There are the relationships with their own dads.

All just so good. Here is a [link to their website.](https://www.dungeonsanddaddies.com/) You can listen to it directly on there, or on Spotify or anywhere else you get your podcast. It's just so good. I marathoned this podcast this school year 21-22 and was filled with emotions that I had been depraved of working on school things.