---
imageSrc: "/assets/worm-title-cover.webp"
thumbnailSrc: "/assets/worm-thumbnail.jpg"
altText: "Skitter or Taylor, the main character of Worm."
title: "WORM"
summary: "One of the best (and only) webserial I have ever read."
author: "Wildbow"
---

This webserial posted its first chapter at July 2, 2011. I started reading it at 2020, well after it concluded. At that point John McCrae, or more popularly known online as Wildbow, has completed 3 other webserials and is--as I work on this--working and continually updating his most recent webserial, Pale.

It's actually clickbait-y to say that this is the only webserial I've ever read. I've read others. Though at this point, only Wildbow's. I've read Worm (obviously), I've also read the sequel to Worm, Ward. I'm also trying to read Pale, but with my brain on instant gratification mode, Youtube is the one feeding me my daily entertainment.

Anyways, Worm is WILD. It is long, like very longggg. It is the longest work I have ever read in my entire life. Second longest actually, since Ward is longer. Worm is a hundred thousand words shorter than the entire A Song of Ice and Fire Series (according to a cursory Google search.) George R.R. Martin first published the first installment of his series at 1996 and is still writing. Worm was written in **2** years. That's scares me at a level I can't even begin to describe.

Other than it's length, Worm has a multitude of merits. It has amazing worldbuilding, plot, characters, all of it. Powers in this universe are so enjoyable. They are gained from trauma--so bog-standard so far. But where they differ from the normal superhero comics is that the powers are unique. Much more unique compared to mainstream superheroes anyways.

The main character, Taylor Hebert, has controls over simple organisms like bugs and crabs. People underestimated her and her power at first, but through her cleverness (and becoming associated with organized crime), she shows how *scary* organized bug attacks can be. 

Other notable powers I remember the top of my head are: the power to be able to become unpercievable as threat, the power to be forgotten by everyone (insofar as even the people looking straight at you forget you're even there), and the power to make really good cameras. That last one might seem like a joke, but Tinkers are basically bestowed the power to have knowledge on how to build incredibly advanced technology.

The characters. Oh God the characters. Because of how powers are gained, 100% of capes (slang for people with powers) have some baggage or another. Throughout the story, Wildbow explores this trauma and weives them together beautifully. Taylor gained her powers because people bullied her, made her feel isolated. Her trigger point occured when she was shoved in a locker full of bugs. This is another things about powers here. The trauma relates--if only tangentially--to their power gained.

A character I personally thought would be boring was Miss Malitia. She has this energy thing that can transform into any gun. I thought she'd be boring but no dear reader, she's not boring at all. She triggered when her village got attacked by Turkish soliders. This gives us the perspective of immigrants seeing America as truly great, since they've seen how bad it can truly get. Her energy-gun-thingy isn't her only power, she also no need for sleep and can't forget anything. Because of this, she doesn't forget when she is made to forget where powers come from.

My words do no justice of how good of a read this webserial is and it's sequel. I've barely scratched the surface of what Worm truly is. Worm is all of this and more.

This is the greatest thing I might ever read in my lifetime. Well second to Ward. Well maybe until I read Terry Pratchett's Discworld. Maybe the best thing I'll read for free. Without pirating pdf's. Anyways, Worm is amazing: [read it here!](https://parahumans.wordpress.com/2011/06/11/1-1/)